The European IEPPEC attracts about 200 experts each time, from more than 30 countries. It results in proceedings counting nearly 100 peer-reviewed papers which join the IEPPEC database and can be accessed on the conference webpage.
We kindly invite you to contribute to the IEPPEC conference and support it. Please contact us and share your ideas how to improve the conference, what could be the potential paper and panel topics, pre/post-conference workshops and informal sessions. If you like to be a sponsor of the conference or provide scholarships for students to come, or support it in any other way, please contact us!
We hope to see you at the next IEPPEC event!
Should you be interested in joining us in this great experience, please visit:
Background
IEPPEC is an international and professional conference for policy makers, programme implementers, evaluators, researchers and more generally for anyone interested in evaluation issues related to energy efficiency and low carbon policies and programmes.
Connecting Evaluators and Implementers of Low Carbon Policies and Programmes
Policies and programmes for increased energy efficiency, energy savings and reduction of GHG emissions are ranked as top priorities by EU, IEA and UN to help the world face the critical issues of climate change and resource conservation. The increasing focus on energy policy and programmes has resulted in more challenging objectives and growing investment. There is therefore a need to improve the assessment of potential and actual impacts and to really understand what works and what does not. That’s why high-quality evaluation practices are essential: to overcome the barrier due to the lack of confidence in the results, and to foster experience sharing.
From IEPEC to IEPPEC
The North American IEPEC (International Energy Program Evaluation Conference) has organized conferences since the 1983 on alternate years. International Energy Policy and Programme Evaluation Conference (IEPPEC) in Europe has been held since 2010: in Paris (2010), Rome (2012), Berlin (2014) and Amsterdam (2016). In 2017, we are planning for the first time an IEPPEC event in Bangkok, Thailand.
Our Purpose: Cost Effective and Process Efficient Energy without GHG
The primary focus is on evaluations of energy efficiency policies and programmes. It is also open to inputs from evaluations related to low carbon or sustainability policies and programmes (e.g., renewable energy generation, transport, waste management, water, food production, etc.), in particular when these other fields have interactions with energy efficiency.
Contact:
Institut für Klimaschutz, Energie und Mobilität (IKEM)
Magazinstr. 15-16 | 10179 Berlin
0049.30.408-18-70-12
aleksandra.novikova@ikem.de
irina.stamo@ikem.de
20 student scholarships each year!