Forschungsinitiative Kopernikus
The Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) has allocated a total of EUR 400 million to fund the Kopernikus program until 2025. The objective of the program is to develop innovative technological and economic solutions that can facilitate the transition to a more sustainable energy system. Over a period of 10 years, more than 230 partners from science, business and civil society will conduct research in four subject areas: “New Network Structures”, “Storage of Renewable Energies”, “Reorientation of Industrial Processes” and “System Integration”. Researchers are adopting a holistic approach to these four subprojects in order to examine specific issues relevant to the individuals and institutions that play key roles in energy generation, transmission, supply, and distribution. The program’s 10-year lifespan ensures that the initiative will include a long-term interchange between theory and practice.
System integration: ENavi
As a participant in the “ENavi” subproject, IKEM is partnering with roughly 90 institutions from the fields of science, business, and law to develop a navigation system that promotes the transition to sustainable energy. Because system integration is vital to the success of comprehensive energy reforms, the program partners’ integrative approach includes research on heat, gas, and fuel use. IKEM plays a key role in ensuring that the findings from theoretical analyses can be applied in practice. From the outset, field tests are conducted to assess the concrete technical, economic, and legal implications of the energy transition. Test results can then be applied to other regions. Program partners intend to expand the initiative to include research on 50 municipally owned power generation and electricity distribution companies, orStadtwerke.
Task 4.7: Technical and systemic analysis with a focus on building energy efficiency
Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050 presents GHG emissions reduction targets by sector and the building sector has the highest, with a 67-68% reduction target by 2030, of which 20% are to be achieved by 2020.A large part of the German building stock dates from the 1950s and 1960s, whereas the first energy saving standard was introduced in 1977, which clearly demonstrates the need of building envelope retrofitting.
Substantial investments are needed to boost renewables and energy efficiency if German climate targets are to be met. Tracking climate finance enables evidence-based policy-making by providing an overview of the “playground” and assess over- and underspending . Despite the significance of tracking climate finance, there is a knowledge gap in methods and in results. This is the research focus of task 4.7.
Further Information on task 4.7
Project Team Members
View Profile
Management | Flexibility Options in the Energy Sector, Autonomous Driving, Renewable Energy Promotion Regime
View Profile
Energy Law | Sector Coupling, Heat, Energy Eficiency Law, Biomass, Laboratories
View Profile
Energy Efficiency and Climate Finance | Energy Efficiency, Climate Mitigation Policy, Climate Finance, Global projects
View Profile
Mobility | Highly Automated and Autonomous Public Transport Systems