Tracking investment into the energy transition
What are the investment flows related to the energy system transformation in Germany and France? This question is addressed in a background paper by IKEM – Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility and the Institute for Climate Economics (I4CE), which has now been published by the French-German Office of the Energy Transition.
The background paper provides an insight into the tracking of investments related to the energy transition and climate protection measures of EU member states. It should be noted that there is currently no uniform methodology for investigating climate financing in the EU. So far, Germany and France have gained the most experience. For this reason, the background paper compares the relevant methodologies and results from both countries. It discusses the most important similarities and differences in the two tracking methodologies, the status quo of available information and various methodological and data challenges encountered throughout two approaches.
These analyses provide an important starting point for understanding the investment challenges associated with the climate and energy objectives. Building on this, Member States can develop strategies to mobilise (mainly private) capital for energy system transformation in line with the investment needs estimates contained in the National Energy and Climate Plans (NECPs).
The background paper was developed in cooperation between IKEM and the Institute for Climate Economics (I4CE) and is part of the ENavi project (work package 4, task 7 “Technical-systemic analysis with focus on energy efficiency in buildings”) funded by the Kopernikus Platform of the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF).
The paper is available in German, English and French.
Citation
Novikova, A., Klinge, A., Hainaut, H., Cochran, I., Juergens, I., Emmrich, J. 2019. Tracking investment into energy transition in Germany and France: A comparison of methodologies and selected results. Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility (IKEM) and the Institute for Climate Economics (I4CE), September 2019.
Aleksandra Novikova
Tel. +49 (0)30 408 1870 10
aleksandra.novikova@ikem.de