Background
Expanding the use of renewable energies is a prerequisite for a successful energy transition (Energiewende). With the Renewable Energy Law (Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz – EEG) German legislators created an appropriate funding instrument. The law first came into force in 2000 and has been reformed and advanced since then. The EEG states that legal regulations’ impact need to be examined regularly. IKEM has been involved in several projects commissioned by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi) concerning the evaluation of the EEG and the development of recommendations for its optimization.
Current Project: EEG 2014
Together with Fraunhofer ISI and Fraunhofer IWES, IKEM is involved once more in a project concerning the preparation of the EEG report (EEG 2014). Since July 2016, IKEM evaluates the new regulations’ effect on direct marketing of energy, identifies potential barriers und develops proposals for the further advancement of this instrument (Vorhaben I). In addition to the recent projects in this area, the IKEM also undertakes the technical coordination of the review projects (Vorhaben II a-f, III, IV), therefore being responsible for connecting and consolidating the respective sector projects. It will also assist the BMWi as main contact person for the preparation of the reports that are to be delivered.
The reports will be published successively on the Ministry’s website “Eneuerbare-Energien.de“
Previous Projects: EEG 2012
EEG Advancement
With the aim of an instrumental and legal advancement of the EEG IKEM evaluated the EEG 2012 regulations’ outcome. The project was referring primarily to energy-economic issues that arise in connection with the integration of renewable energy in the feed-in tariff and EEG’s transparency. This includes the establishment of a register for renewable energy plants. In addition, the project dealt with specific legal questions concerning EEG’s legal and regulatory proceedings as well as constitutional and European legal implications. This also included an in-depth study of the EEG clearinghouse and the investigation of specific research demands from the fields of biomass, geothermal energy, solar energy, hydropower and wind energy. The project conducted together with the partners Fraunhofer ISI, Öko-Institut, Stiftung Umweltenergierecht and the law firm Becker Büttner Held. The results are to be included in the preparation of the EEG progress report and the annual monitoring reports (both according to § 65 EEG).
With the aim of an instrumental and legal advancement of the EEG IKEM evaluated the EEG 2012 regulations’ outcome. The project was referring primarily to energy-economic issues that arise in connection with the integration of renewable energy in the feed-in tariff and EEG’s transparency. This includes the establishment of a register for renewable energy plants. In addition, the project dealt with specific legal questions concerning EEG’s legal and regulatory proceedings as well as constitutional and European legal implications. This also included an in-depth study of the EEG clearinghouse and the investigation of specific research demands from the fields of biomass, geothermal energy, solar energy, hydropower and wind energy. The project conducted together with the partners Fraunhofer ISI, Öko-Institut, Stiftung Umweltenergierecht and the law firm Becker Büttner Held. The results are to be included in the preparation of the EEG progress report and the annual monitoring reports (both according to § 65 EEG).
EEG Equalisation Mechanism
Together with Ecofys Germany GmbH, Büro für Energiewirtschaft und technische Planung GmbH (BET) and the law firm Becker Büttner Held (BBH) IKEM evaluated the experience with the provisions of the Equalisation Scheme (Ausgleichsmechanismusverordnung – AusglMechV) and the Equalisation Scheme Implementation Regulation (Ausgleichsmechanismus-Ausführungsverordnung – AusglMechAV). The main criterion was the marketability from the perspective of the Transmission System Operators (TSO). From these results, IKEM generated recommendations for further development of the compensation mechanism’s fourth stage. In order to increase the efficiency of the compensation mechanism, researchers investigated the options of Third Party Marketing (Drittvermarktung) and the customization of the existing stakeholder framework. In the long term, more efficient marketing processes can serve to increase the allowances for EEG electricity on the electricity market, thereby reducing the apportionment from the EEG Equalisation Scheme.
Together with Ecofys Germany GmbH, Büro für Energiewirtschaft und technische Planung GmbH (BET) and the law firm Becker Büttner Held (BBH) IKEM evaluated the experience with the provisions of the Equalisation Scheme (Ausgleichsmechanismusverordnung – AusglMechV) and the Equalisation Scheme Implementation Regulation (Ausgleichsmechanismus-Ausführungsverordnung – AusglMechAV). The main criterion was the marketability from the perspective of the Transmission System Operators (TSO). From these results, IKEM generated recommendations for further development of the compensation mechanism’s fourth stage. In order to increase the efficiency of the compensation mechanism, researchers investigated the options of Third Party Marketing (Drittvermarktung) and the customization of the existing stakeholder framework. In the long term, more efficient marketing processes can serve to increase the allowances for EEG electricity on the electricity market, thereby reducing the apportionment from the EEG Equalisation Scheme.