The German energy transition (Energiewende) is on its way and the vision of a sustainable, ecological energy supply that is also accepted by the society therefore comes within reach. The consortium “Smart Energy East Germany” (SMENOS) wants to take this even further and strengthens the energy transition by fostering sustainable innovations and supporting businesses and research in East Germany. The project SMENOS is part of the framework “Zwanzig20 Foren” funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
To achieve these objectives, the functionality of different renewable power generators must be extended beyond energy production. “Smart Energy” needs concepts for intelligent power generation and grids that ensure security of supply and stability.
The concept “Power-to-Heat” is intended to provide a way to balance fluctuating energy production from renewable energy sources. This technology uses electrical energy to heat a different energy carrier. The generated heat can be distributed to customers via existing district heating infrastructure.
SMENOS dedicates a sub-project to integrating fluctuating renewable energy plants into the energy system via heat sector coupling. The aim is to also increase share of renewable energy in the heat sector.
IKEM designs a feasibility study, which includes a baseline study about existing heat demand and infrastructure in Eastern Germany (i.e. heating networks, heat sinks). This analysis is used to derive potential scenarios for the use of “power-to-heat”. So far, there is great uncertainty among market participants – in particular among small and medium enterprises (SMEs) – regarding the potentials and obstacles of this technology. Therefore, apart from the description of the legal framework, the research will also determine the conditions under which “power-to-Heat” is economically feasible.
Nutzung des Wärmepotenzials zur Integration von fluktuierenden EE in das energiewirtschaftliche Gesamtsystem im „SMENOS“-Gebiet unter besonderer Berücksichtigung von Geschäftsmodellen für KMU:
Auftraggeber: Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung (BMBF)
Projektpartner: Becker Büttner Held Consulting (BBHC), Reiner Lemoine Institut (RLI)