Biography
Julia Schmidt is a Senior Research Associate at IKEM and leads the team Energy Transition in Transport. She conducts research at IKEM regarding the effects of electromobility in road transportation considering both environmental and climate protection aspects. In this context, she manages the impact assessment research activities of smart charging infrastructure within the European Horizon 2020 research projects MEISTER and USER-CHI.
Previously, Ms. Schmidt conducted research at IKEM regarding economic effects of electric autonomous vehicles in public passenger road transportation for the duration of two years. In this context, she has been involved in the research projects Hamburg Electric Autonomous Transportation, Interreg Automated Transport in Germany and the Netherlands (I-AT) and Optimized Transport Systems with self-driving vehicles (OTS 1.0). The focus of her work was to examine the economic effects of implementing autonomous vehicles in existing operator and business models of public passenger road transportation and determining sustainable use cases in urban areas.
Ms. Schmidt holds a master’s degree in economics from the University of Potsdam and studied Sustainable Development at the University of Utrecht, the Netherlands. During her studies, she specialized in the fields of Energy and Environmental Economics and successfully graduated with a thesis focusing on the concept of Climate Smart Agriculture and its economic effects emphasizing energy and welfare.
Prior to joining IKEM, Ms. Schmidt gained professional experience as a student researcher at the Chair of Marketing in the field of Sustainable Marketing Management temporarily leading the project “Studium Oecologicum”. She also has been a student’s teacher at the University of Potsdam conceptualizing and executing workshops discussing passenger vehicle-based sustainable mobility options.
Project Lead
Publications
Urbane Energiewende – Teil C: Gutachterliche Ausarbeitung zu regulatorischen Herausforderungen Technical Report
dena Abschlussbericht zum dena-Projekt Urbane Energiewende, 2019.
Tödlicher Unfall mit autonomem Fahrzeug in den USA Technical Report
IKEM: Stellungnahme, 2018.
Contact
julia.schmidt@ikem.de