Fridays for Future: Generation Greta supports the Infographic Energy Transition Coloring Book
Since December 7, 2018, Fridays for Future (FFF) activists have gathered throughout Germany to demonstrate for better climate protection. The Institute for Climate Change, Energy and Mobility (IKEM) and Ellery Studio for Creative Strategy welcome the dedication of these students and their commitment to a climate-friendly future. Representatives of Fridays for Future (Berlin) have now commented on the release of the award-winning Infographic Energy Transition Coloring Book (IETCB). Here is the full text of their statement:
“We need an energy and mobility revolution!
Not tomorrow or next week, but now. FFF has responded by making ambitious demands for change, including goals for a coal phaseout by 2030, a CO2 tax, and the transition to renewable energies. If we want to improve understanding of the measures and strategies required, we’ll need to make the knowledge of scientists and politicians more accessible to every generation. In The Infographic Energy Transition Coloring Book, Ellery Studio and the Institute for Climate Change, Energy and Mobility (IKEM) communicate scientific information about climate change in a unique way.
This is especially important in the digital age, because access to information is one thing; understanding its complexity is another. That’s why we need materials like the IETCB, which can facilitate a cross-generational understanding of fundamental issues. The writers and designers behind the coloring book have developed an innovative format to illustrate the measures and strategies needed to achieve the energy and mobility transition.
The IETCB presents basic facts and figures on climate change and the energy transition in a playful and creative way. Schools, in particular, should take advantage of this format in order to introduce comprehensive climate education in schools as early as possible.
Climate change is global and needs to be viewed and discussed in international terms. We can combat the climate crisis only if we tackle it together. In the future, movements must be unified, and countries must share ideas for new strategies and measures. Generations will have to support each other in understanding the climate crisis and forming an opinion. Today, we need texts like this coloring book to communicate, connect, and present solution-oriented approaches in a format that’s accessible to everyone. This is the only way we’ll be able to move one step closer to an energy and mobility transition.”
The IETCB was first published in 2017 and has since received numerous awards. Ellery Studio and IKEM have launched a Kickstarter campaign to finance an updated edition of the coloring book. In addition to the latest facts and figures, the revised release will make it possible to reach climate protectors and decision makers around the world. The campaign ends on August 27, 2019. Supporters can contribute to the campaign or pre-order the book by visiting: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/ellerystudio/infographic-energy-transition-coloring-book
IKEM
Adrian Röhrig
Magazinstraße 15-16 | D-10179 Berlin
Tel. +49 (0)30 40 81 87 017
adrian.roehrig@ikem.de
Ellery Studio
Eugen Litwinow
Tel. +49 30 35 52 69 85
presse@ellerystudio.com
Fridays for Future (Berlin)
Linda Völker
lindalaluu@gmail.com
Project partners:
The Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility (IKEM ) is a non-profit and independent research institute founded in November 2009. It is recognized by the United Nations as a non-governmental organization and has offices in Berlin, Greifswald, and Stuttgart. At IKEM, roughly 50 scientists conduct research on the most important issues associated with the energy and mobility transition, focusing primarily on the interaction between regulation, climate protection, and the economy.
Ellery Studio for Creative Strategy translates complex concepts into clear, user-friendly content that facilitates decision-making in the field of science communication. By applying principles of strategic design, visual storytelling, and future-oriented social science research, Ellery Studio’s designers and makers develop accessible infographics and innovative communication formats. These lay the groundwork for knowledge-building, reflection, and ultimately action.