Project Information
Under the leadership of the Advanced Energy Systems Institute (AES) at the University of Bremen, IKEM contributes to the joint project KEROSyN100 aimed at the efficient production of renewable kerosene: A process layout for the realization of the first power-to-jet fuel plant is to be developed in a commercially oriented demonstration environment with high system usability and 100% utilization of renewable energy. The aim is the production of green kerosene and the minimization of the interruption of renewable energy production. For air transport, there are currently no alternatives to hydrocarbon fuels, making electricity-based kerosene the most promising path to decarbonisation in this sector. The market launch of electricity-based kerosene is to be initiated through multi-criteria evaluation of relevant process chains, further technological development of the key technology methanol-to-jet fuel, the development of suitable regulatory framework conditions and the implementation of an initial plant. The planned power-to-kerosene plant will be abstracted as a power-to-fuel plant model, whereby the special case of power-to-kerosene will be investigated within the project. KEROSyN100 is funded by the Federal Ministry for Economics and Energy.
IKEM in KEROSyN100
The aim of the IKEM sub-project is to develop a concept for the first phase of the project that is compatible with the current regulatory framework. To this end, IKEM is responsible for dealing with legal issues (WP 1.4.). The first step involves the identification of general regulatory barriers (in particular government-induced price components for electricity consumption, specifications for data processing in networked systems), but also incentive mechanisms (privileges for electricity consumption, “green” product characteristics, renewable fuel quotas) in the context of the project. Based on the general observations on the regulatory framework, the construction of a legally feasible and optimal concept based on the legal status quo is carried out in an iterative process with the other project partners. The challenge here is to develop the technically, economically and legally feasible solution for the concrete application. In particular, IKEM supports the preparation for the concrete implementation phase. Finally, the possibilities for regulatory adjustments (e.g. with regard to the “green” properties of kerosene, privileges for CO2 emissions) are outlined.