Project Information
The aim of the project is to develop a concept for the promotion of electric mobility in Bottrop. This is to take place within the framework of an integrated approach involving experts and relevant stakeholders. The aim is to politically implement the jointly developed concept after project completion.
The following main points are to be investigated: 1) The electrification of the municipal vehicle fleet is to be continued and implemented on a broader scale, building on an existing concept. 2) The support of the commercial enterprises of the city of Bottrop in the electrification of their vehicle fleet is to be secured through demonstration projects as well as through intensive exchange with stakeholders. 3) The creation of a municipal charging infrastructure concept in the sense of a densification of already existing charging infrastructure is to be jointly developed within the project. 4) The electrification of fleets in combination with the use of self-generated renewable energies is to be examined. The factors and obstacles that favour or prevent implementation should be recorded accordingly. These are to be considered both from an energy-economic and a legal point of view.
IKEM’s role in the project
IKEM´s overall role in the project has a legal, technical, and economic focus. Besides IKEM, Becker Büttner Held Consulting AG and Becker Büttner Held PartGmbB participate as project partners.
Initially, IKEM is significantly involved in the scientific elaboration of recommendations for action, as well as political models and strategies that ensure the competitiveness of the regional economy during the nationwide conversion to e-mobility. Furthermore, IKEM and BBHC are analysing the e-mobility potentials in the private sector of the city of Bottrop. Furthermore, IKEM is developing a local charging infrastructure concept that integrates supply-side and demand-side factors of charging infrastructure use. The aim of this concept is the differentiated evaluation of potential locations of public charging facilities. Furthermore, IKEM is charged with the activation and education of municipal groups of actors – such as industry and commerce, housing companies or private homeowners.