IKEM officially registered as NGO with the United Nations
Specialist in climate and energy protection
Effective immediately, IKEM is entitled to participate in international climate protection negotiations and other Council meetings and to submit opinions. The Institute’s designation as an official UN NGO underscores IKEM’s independence and special contribution to climate protection at national, EU and international levels. Its specialization in the areas of climate protection and energy law distinguishes it from the roughly 60 other organizations from Germany which currently have a special consultative status.
Practical strategies for climate protection
“The designation as an NGO with special consultative status is both a great honor and a great responsibility for our Institute,” said IKEM’s Director, Prof. Michael Rodi. “We want to become even more involved in climate protection and to advance our research so that we can present policymakers with persuasive, carefully considered, practical approaches for implementing our ideas.”
Plans for the COP23 Climate Protection Conference in Bonn
IKEM’s Managing Director, Simon Schäfer-Stradowsky, added: “We would like to hold a side event on our agenda items and introduce them into negotiations as early as this year at the COP23 Climate Protection Conference in Bonn. These topics will include climate finance, divestment and strategies at a municipal level. Climate protection has long been a multi-layered field in which success can be achieved independent of major climate protection agreements and short-term political decisions, such as the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement.”
Research from an interdisciplinary, integrative and international perspective
Since 2009, IKEM has researched key issues in the development of a sustainable economic and social order. The Institute’s excellent research associates examine the legal and policy framework for each of three fields—climate protection, energy and mobility—from an interdisciplinary, integrative and international perspective. IKEM is a registered non-profit organization and is an independent research institute affiliated with the Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität Greifswald.
Further information:
Simon Schäfer-Stradowsky
Managing Director
+49 (0) 30 408 1870-21
simon.schaefer-stradowsky@ikem.de