What is climate?
According to the World Organization for Meteorology (WMO), climate is the 30-year-old statistical mean of weather elements such as temperature, wind speed and precipitation. Climate must not be confused with the weather for shorter periods.
What are climate zones?
There is no „global climate“, but only climate zones from polar to tropical. The climate of all the climatic zones on earth has never been constant. Climate change is the rule. There were fast and slow climate changes, although the trends in different other regions were often even contrary. Some causes are known, most not yet. The term „current climate change“ is misleading, because weather and climate always change, uninterrupted and indispensable. Therefore „climate protection“ is a political and ideological term, which is scientifically meaningless.
How was the climate earlier?
The recent climate change, which is due to natural causes, is relatively moderate. It is now universally acknowledged that there have been unequally more violent climatic changes in earlier earth-historical periods. The Medieval Warm Period (about 1000 to 1300), for example, was favorable to people and to a considerable increase in population as a result of better harvests. On the other hand, the „Small Ice Age“ (c. 1400-1800), which coldest phase occurred in the second half of the 17th century together with the solar Maunder Minimum, had a catastrophic effect. While we are talking about temperature changes in the last 100 years, the people of the Vistula cold period (about 120,000-10,000 B.C.) experienced climatic jumps of several degrees during a lifetime. All this happened without anthropogenic CO2. Glazologists note that the temperatures during the last 10,000 years have been two-thirds higher than today. As a result, the Alpine glaciers had almost disappeared in all the stronger warm periods, for instance when Hannibal crossed the Alps with elephants. In the medieval hot summers, the European rivers hardly brought water. Thus, the foundations of the famous Regensburger Steinbrücke could be built in the dry Danube and the People of Cologne could cross the Rhine by foot.
Are extreme weather conditions increasing?
Worldwide, weather services do not have any trends towards extreme weather increasing. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), in its third chapter of the 2001 report in Chapter 2.7, states that an increase in extreme weather events is not demonstrable.
Arctic, Antarctica and sea level
The ice of the Arctic is subject to natural long-term fluctuations. Thus the Northeast Passage was already discovered by Erik Nordenskjöld in 1878. There was just as little ice in the very warm 1930s as there is today. The continual increase in snow and ice in the Antarctic is also shown by the redesign of the German Antarctic Research Station Neumeyer III. It rests on hydraulic stilts, which are lifted from year to year over the growing snow and ice layers. The predecessor station Neumeyer II is now about 12 meters below the surface. On the high plateau of Greenland, there were emergency landings of military aircraft in the Second World War. These are now up to 140 meters below the grown inland ice. The sea level has been rising for 10,000 years. An increase of the sea level caused by anthropogenic CO2 or even accelerated sea level rise is still to date not verified – either with level data or with satellite measurements.
CO2 – pollutant or life sway?
CO2 is the basic building block of photosynthesis and therefore a prerequisite for all life on earth. With increasing CO2 concentration plants grow better: the crop yields in the open field rise. Greenhouse crops are gassed with CO2 to increase their yield.
Politics and Climate, UN and IPCC
For the southern hemisphere of the earth, no significant or even unified heating trend has been found to date. The Antarctic continues to cool down. The recent, in comparison to the climate history, slight warming of the northern hemisphere in the 20th century caused the UN to establish the IPCC. Thus climate science was instrumentalized politically and ideologically. The aim was and is to provide the national governments with the propagandistic basis for drastic changes in their energy and fiscal policy. Thus restrictive laws restricting democratic freedoms can easily be more enforced. The IPCC, governments, parties, climate, ideological NGOs as well as profitable industries such as the wind turbine, photovoltaic and insulation industry, energy monopolists, insurance companies, banks and media monopolies go hand in hand – to the detriment of the poor in the third world, our national economy and each individual German consumer. IPCC forecasts are far from the real observation data. The so called „Climategate“ showed in the end of 2009, that the warming of the northern hemisphere was lower than documented by the IPCC. In addition, the Urban Heat Island-effect was not measured at any point, because of the weather measuring stations, which were often situated in urban areas. The real temperature increase of only a few tenths of a degree Celsius is not comparable to the simulation result projected by the IPCC, despite a strong increase in the CO2 content. An anthropogenic climate influence of the described extent can be found nowhere. Obviously, we are dealing with an exaggerated statement, which has been the intention of the IPCC from the outset.
Why did we set up EIKE?
EIKE was founded in Hanover in 2007 as a private initiative, because the German policy, the German media and also some institutes have brought false key facts about the climate and extreme weather,
* Because the German energy policy has meanwhile diverged from a rational energy planning in a bipartisan manner (see chapter „ENERGY“).
Visions of EIKE
- As a public forum to present the climate and energy facts without an ideology,
- to organize international scientific congresses,
- to promote and disseminate publications on climate research, in particular of EIKE members.
Work base and commitments
- EIKE is independent and works only on its own behalf,
- EIKE is science-oriented,
- EIKE is committed to the protection of nature and the economical use of resources.
- EIKE is financed by membership fees and donations. Donations are only accepted, but only when
any influence by donors is excluded.
Neueste Kommentare