To get in touch with one of the many impressive and engaged climate strikers, select a country or countries in the list below and contact them directly or go to the Map and click on the pin for a strike to find contact details for organizers.
If you are looking for several climate activists, please consider including different parts of the world. There are climate activists on all continents and in almost every country on the planet.
Only if the country you are looking for is not in the list below, please contact us and we will try to help you contact local climate activists.
Country contact information
Afghanistan
Albania
Angola
Antarctica
Argentina
Australia Fridays For FutureSchool Strike 4 Climate
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belgium
Bermuda
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cameroon
Canada Fridays For Future CanadaClimate Strike Canada
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
England
Estonia
Europe
Finland
Finland Åland islands
France
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Honduras
Hungary
Iceland
India India 1India 2
International
International F F F Digital
Iran
Iraq
Iraq Kurdistan Region
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Kenya
Kosovo
Latvia
Lebanon
Liberia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macedonia
Malta
MAPA (Most Affected People and Areas)
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Northern Ireland
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru Fridays For Future Piura
Philippines YouthStrike4Climate
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Romania
Russia
Scotland
Senegal
Serbia Belgrade
Sierra Leone
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland GermanFrenchItalian
Taiwan
Thailand
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
Uruguay
US
Venezuela
Wales
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Country registration
For Fridays for Future countries – missing your country or details in the FFF country list below?
FFFAQ
Please check these frequently asked questions below before emailing:
Finding climate strikes
Close to you
- Check the Map
- Click the arrow on the left, below the + and -, and it will show your position on the map and the strikes closest to you.
- Click on the pin to find time and place for the strike, and, if they have indicated a contact, contact details for the organizer of that strike.
Somewhere else
- If you go to the Map and look top left under All countries, you can select any country in the drop-down list and find the local strikes.
- Use + to zoom.
- Click on the pin to find time and place for the strike, and, if they have indicated a contact, contact details for the organizer of that strike.
If there is no strike close to you, please start one. There is information here. Please remember to register your strike with us here.
Interviewing Greta Thunberg / asking her to speak / asking for a message
- Greta is able to participate in a fraction of the invitations that are sent to her, so please also consider inviting another climate activist. There are engaged and committed climate strikers in almost every country in the world. See country list below for contact details.
Interviewing climate activists/inviting a speaker
- There are many impressive and engaged climate strikers.
- The fastest way to get in touch is to select a country or countries in the list below and email directly, or go to the Map and click on the pin for a strike to find contact details for organizers.
- If you are looking for several climate activists, please consider including different parts of the world. There are climate activists on all continents and in almost every country on the planet.
If the country you are looking for is not on the list, please email us, email address below the list of countries and we will try to help.
How many strikers will there be/were there?
Figures are available
- by country here: list-countries
- by town here: list-towns
Strike numbers grow as we approach the date and even after the date. An example, from the global strike on March 15, 2019:
- 359 events had registered a week before the strike.
- A week later, on the day, 2700 events had registered.
Solution to the climate crisis
We profoundly appreciate all efforts to find solutions to the climate crisis.
Fridays for Future does not have the capacity or the competence to evaluate solutions. If you have a solution, we therefore urge you to send your contribution to those who do, so that it can be put to use.
Map updates
Normally, the map is updated every 24 hours. From midnight CET/CEST. During Global strikes this is changed to every six hours.
It may take a few days for new strikes to appear on the map and for changes in map data to appear.
If you wish to change the data for your strike, the easiest way is to register again, using as similar data as previously, and it should overwrite. Should that not work, please email map@fridaysforfuture.org.