FridaysForFuture has yet again protested to demand Climate Justice. On March 19 we returned with fresh calls, new ideas and bolder actions.
#NoMoreEmptyPromises
Those in power continue to only deliver vague and empty promises for far off dates that are much too late. What we need are not meaningless goals for 2050 or net-zero targets full of loopholes, but concrete and immediate action in-line with science. Our carbon budget is running out. The climate crisis is already here and will only get worse, so if we are to avoid the worst case scenarios, annual, short-term climate binding targets that factor in justice and equity have to be prioritized by the people in charge.
Read our Press Release in many languages!
Without Us.
Guess who’s back? Back Again – FFF! We are back, back again on the streets! Download the Song “Without Us” here: https://fffutu.re/WithoutUs
Divest from fossil fules
The fossil fuel industry is destroying ecosystems, people’s lives, and our future, yet institutions continue to support and fund this destructive, decaying industry. It is time to phase out fossil fuel with no exceptions and no excuses, while factoring in justice and equity for workers and communities on the ground.
Immediate action points
As the world gets hotter and hotter by the year, we must treat the climate and ecological emergency like an emergency — which means immediate action and #NoMoreEmptyPromises from our world leaders.
Note: The current list is not final and is only a suggestion. National/local groups and other sectors of society can suggest modifications to improve this proposal. The final list will only serve as a general guide for groups participating in the upcoming strike, who can determine specific targets relevant to their own local campaigns.
- End all investments in fossil fuel exploration and extraction. Governments, financial institutions, and companies must immediately end fossil fuel subsidies and immediately and completely divest from fossil fuels. Moratoria on all new fossil fuel projects should be imposed worldwide.
- Establish annual, binding carbon budgets based on the best available science and the IPCC proposal that gives us a 66% chance of limiting global heating to below 1.5°C. These budgets must take into consideration the common but differentiated responsibility among countries in the Global North and the most affected peoples and areas, and must not be reliant on possible future negative emissions technologies.
- Design climate policies that consider the welfare of workers and the most vulnerable in society. Policies must incorporate aspects of economic, racial, and gender justice as they work to address the climate emergency. Justice for environmental defenders must especially be considered given the repression they have faced for protecting our planet. No one should be left behind.
- Protect and safeguard democracy by providing spaces for and repealing laws that limit citizen participation in climate decision-making. Governments should recognize the importance of the involvement of civil society in the resolution of the climate crisis, and should be open to suggestions and criticism from their constituents. Voices of environmental defenders, farmers, fisherfolk, and indigenous communities, must especially be listened to, valued, and prioritized.
- Commit to making ecocide an international crime at the International Criminal Court. We are now witnessing the disastrous effects of massive over-extraction and subsequent degradation of nature on humanity and the planet. Any and all individuals and institutions complicit in the massive, large scale destruction of our planet must be held accountable for their actions.
We need everyone to share the past strike.
Find graphics, sharepixs and more to spread the message!
Profile Picture Generator
Press release
‘No more empty promises’
Climate strikers announce date for next global climate strike
[13 Jan 2021] In the midst of the various public health, sociopolitical, and economic crises that the world continues to face entering the new year, climate activists are gearing up for the next Global Climate Strike on March 19th to demand immediate, concrete, and ambitious action from world leaders in response to the ongoing climate crisis.
Part of what they want to highlight in the coming strike is the urgency of immediate action in the face of the weather- and climate-related disasters that have devastated various countries last year, from the wildfires that afflicted parts of Australia, North America, and Latin America, to the droughts in Africa, to the storms that devastated Central America and Southeast Asia.
“The science is crystal clear — climate change is exacerbating natural disasters by making these events stronger, more intense, more frequent, and therefore more destructive,” said João Duccini, a climate activist from Brazil. “The climate crisis is not a far-off catastrophe. Heat waves, droughts, floods, hurricanes, landslides, deforestation, fires, loss of housing and spread of diseases — this is what the most affected people and areas are dealing with more and more frequency today. Our lives depend on immediate action.”
“It’s been five years since the Paris Agreement was signed, and three years since the alarming report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was publicly released,” said Maya Ozbayoglu from Poland. “Numerous countries all over the globe have committed to seemingly ambitious pledges about reaching ‘net-zero’ emissions. Empty promises like these can be a very dangerous phenomenon, because they give the impression that sufficient action is being taken, but in fact that is not the case as these targets are full of loopholes, creative accounting, and unscientific assumptions.”
For over two years now, youth climate activists from around the world have been striking and taking to the streets to demand climate justice. Now, with the COVID-19 pandemic, the actions will be taking on different forms in different places, but their call for #NoMoreEmptyPromises is uniting people beyond borders under the same goal of immediate climate action.
“If we don’t act now, we won’t even have the chance to deliver on those 2030, 2050 targets that world leaders keep on talking about,” said Mitzi Jonelle Tan from the Philippines. “What we need now are not empty promises, but annual binding carbon targets and immediate cuts in emissions in all sectors of our economy.”
“When your house is on fire, you don’t wait for 10, 20 years before you call the fire department; you act as soon and as much as you possibly can,” said Greta Thunberg from Sweden.