2021
MARCH 19 – GLOBAL DAY OF CLIMATE ACTION FridaysForFuture is yet again protesting to demand Climate Justice. On March 19 we return with fresh calls, new ideas and bolder actions. Read More!
2020
DECEMBER 12 – #FightFor1Point5 On Saturday, December 12th, people from around the world came together to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement. But there is no reason for celebration. Our leaders failed to contribute to a 1.5 degree pathway and the climate crisis is becoming uncontrollable. Read More!
SEPTEMBER 25 – GLOBAL DAY OF CLIMATE ACTION This fall, school strike movement Fridays For Future calls for a global climate action day. On September 25th, demonstrations and manifestations will take place all across the globe, all adjusted according to Covid-19 circumstances. Read More!
TalksForFuture We talked with Naomi Klein and Diarmid Campbell-Lendrum. Come back next week for another webinar. Watch!
Stop Subsidizing Fossil Fuels Fossil businesses are being handed nearly $5 trillion in subsidies each year, yet they cannot survive without investors, banks, and costly insurance.
Campaigning for new policies in key financial institutions will result in a quicker phase out of coal, gas and oil. Read more.
EU Citizens’ Action on Climate Emergency An EU Citizen Initiative (ECI) is the most direct way to influence EU politics. When one million people have signed, the Initiative forces the European Commission to take a stand and the EU Parliament to hold a public hearing on the topic. Be one in a million and sign up here. Read more and sign.
FFF Online Trainings How do I build a local climate movement in my area? How do I recruit and organize volunteers? How do I formulate and spread a petition? Join our online training sessions and learn more.
C40 Cities Climate Commitment All over the world, local communities are responding to the climate crisis. Together, C40 cities have taken thousands of successful actions to reduce carbon emissions, and they are proving how fighting climate change helps drive economic growth and improve public health. See for yourself!
Bells for Future Do you have a bell on a building? Ring it for the climate on Fridays.
TalksForFuture
We talked with Naomi Klein and Diarmid Campbell-Lendrum. Come back next week for another webinar.