INMOD was a research project carried out by the Competence Centre Rural Mobility at the University of Wismar with the participation of IKEM between 2011 and 2015. INMOD has developed solutions for the revitalization of public transport in rural areas. The project’s aim was to ensure mobility in spite of structural weakness and declining population, thereby contributing to the stabilization of these regions. Specifically, the interlinking of private transport (electric bicycle) and public transport (electric bus) was advanced. Both components have been established as equal parts of a public transport service chain. The funds for this research project (€ 5.5 million) have been provided by the Federal Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban Affairs and the Ministry of Energy, Infrastructure and Regional Development of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
The project examined different user scenarios in 4 transport areas in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. These scenarios tried to achieve a more attractive public transportation network by concentrating bus transport on main roads while also creating feeder services from the surrounding villages. These feeders were based on electric bicycles.
INMOD provided scientific evidence regarding small-scale intermodality’s demand potentials, spatial development opportunities through the revitalization of public mobility, innovative transport services’ economic potential and the costs of rural mobility. INMOD has also indicated that public transport can be revitalized through the intelligent use of electric mobility in rural areas. In order to achieve a modern, future-oriented and sustainable public transport, the project also developed suggestions for the necessary political and administrative tools.
INMOD - Intermodaler öffentlicher Nahverkehr im ländlichen Raum auf Basis von E-Mobilitätskomponenten:
Projektgeber: Bundesministerium für Verkehr und digitale Infrastruktur (BMVI), Ministerium für Energie, Infrastruktur und Landesentwicklung des Landes Mecklenburg-Vorpommern
Projektpartner: Kompetenzzentrum ländliche Mobilität an der Hochschule Wismar, HIERO Institut, Hoschschule Rostock