Join IKEM at our COP24 side-events
The world is looking at Katowice these days: The 24th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP24) is taking place in southern Poland. As it is IKEM’s approach to protect our climate globally, IKEM is participating and organizing different side events during the conference.
Join us in two COP24 side-events organized by/with IKEM:
From domestic climate finance tracking to climate capital investment plans: what’s next in France, Europe and worldwide?
From domestic climate finance tracking to climate capital investment plans: what’s next in France, Europe and worldwide?
10 December 2018
9:30-11:00 a.m.
French Pavilion
As countries move forward to implement NDCs through national climate strategies, there is an increasing need to understand how to transform investment needs into capital raising and financing plans. This side event will present the existing and emerging practice on tracking climate investment and finance – and how it is being integrated into the policy and planning process. An example will be drawn from I4CE’s five years of experience in France. It further links and promotes similar activities in Germany, Morocco, Poland, Latvia and the Czech Republic.
Best practices in assessment of current investment levels and supporting an increase in sustainable financial flows will be explored as a basic building block of forward-looking analysis and production of investment plans as a part of national climate strategies. Work presented at this event has received funding from the European Climate Initiative (EUKI) of the German Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU), the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), the French Energy Transition Ministry, and Climate KIC.
The Global Covenant of Mayors Day at COP24
The Global Covenant of Mayors Day at COP24
10 December 2018
10:00 – 11:30 a.m.
EU Pavilion
This year, the GCoM day provides a platform to follow-up on the ambition that Covenant cities have set for themselves, including in the context of the Global Climate Action Summit and on the One Planet Charter. But it will also be a forum to move beyond commitment, allowing leading Covenant cities to showcase their achievements and inspire others. It will in particular address innovative approaches – institutional, technological, or natural – to accelerate the transition to low-carbon and climate resilience, and will provide a space to demonstrate quantified progress of Covenant cities in the fight against climate change.
IKEM will present lessons learnt from Berlin on low carbon residential districts. In Germany, the building sector accounts for one third of the country’s CO₂ emissions and it is lagging on national emissions targets. The City of Berlin has set goals to tackle climate change. It aims to reduce CO₂ emissions by at least 40% until 2020, 60% until 2030, and over 85% until 2050 in comparison to 1990. For achieving these ambitious goals, the city of Berlin is implementing the so-called “Berlin model”, which sets the district level at the core for implementing integrated approaches for an energy efficient and affordable housing development as well as for sustainable transport solutions. Moreover, current research on Berlin’s built environment, highlights the great potential of implementing circular business models during the different phases of a building’s life-cycle for decarbonizing the sector.