Background
The energy transition on the generation side and the technological change on the consumer side lead to a deterioration of the stability of the interconnected electrical grid. The fluctuating supply of regenerative generators endangers the balance between generated and consumed power. On the consumer side, the increasing use of inverter-fed drives leads to a weakening of the coupling between grid frequency and power consumption and thus to a reduction in grid attenuation. The research project is dedicated to these problems with special regard to Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
Project Information
The research association “Netz-Stabil” (network stability) investigates the important questions for Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania as a state of renewable energies: how can a stable and secure energy supply be achieved on the basis of fluctuating energy generation (wind and solar plants)?
The research network is characterised by a broad participation of various institutions. In addition to engineers from the relevant chairs at the University of Rostock and the Stralsund University of Applied Sciences, it includes lawyers and economists from the University of Greifswald and theologians from the University of Rostock. In seven thematic focuses, such as energy, it will be examined which energy plants such as wind farms, biogas plants and storage facilities as well as control engineering concepts can contribute to grid stability and how these services can be optimised through further innovations.
Role of the University of Greifswald
The task of the University of Greifswald under the direction of the Chair of Public Law, Financial Law, Environmental and Energy Law of IKEM Director Prof. Dr. Michael Rodi is to evaluate the identified technical solutions from a legal and economic point of view. On this basis, proposals for the adaptation of the legal and policy framework in the federal government as well as in the state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania are to be developed.
Project Website