Background
Germany’s energy concept (Energiekonzept) and energy transition (Energiewende) commit the country to ambitious climate and energy targets: to reduce GHG emissions 80-95% below 1990 levels by 2050, to phase out nuclear energy by 2022, and to reduce primary energy consumption 50% below 2008 levels by 2050. Germany’s Climate Action Plan 2050 presents GHG emissions reduction targets by sector and the building sector has the highest, with a 67-68% reduction target by 2030, of which 20% are to be achieved by 2020. Furthermore, all new buildings are to be climate neutral by 2020 and the thermal retrofit rate is aimed at 2% annually.
A large part of the German building stock dates from the 1950s and 1960s, whereas the first energy saving standard was introduced in 1977, which clearly demonstrates the need of building envelope retrofitting. The building sector is also highly relevant for renewable energy, as in Germany renewable energy is marked by decentralised small-scale and household-financed renewable energy installations.
Substantial investments are needed to boost renewables and energy efficiency if German climate targets are to be met. Tracking climate finance enables evidence-based policy-making by providing an overview of the “playground” and assess over- and underspending . Despite the significance of tracking climate finance, there is a knowledge gap in methods and in results. For Germany specifically, the latest and only complete research dates from 2012, which reflects a lack of knowledge. The study was implemented by Climate Policy Initiative in 2012 and analysed climate finance flows in the year of 2010.
Our work aims to answer where finance is concentrated and where the deficiencies are; contribute to framing the assessment of why and in how far investments for decarbonisation are so far not sufficient; identify examples of types of financing and support that can close the investment gap; and finally, which actors could best help leverage more investment volume.
Our Research Activities
Contribution of the Chapter “Climate finance in Germany – Investments into the Transformation” to the book on Greening Finance of Union Investment
The paper gathers existing knowledge on where we stand addressing climate-related challenges in Germany by reviewing literature available in the public domain. It explores the investment needs for mitigation measures to meet the national climate commitments, the level of investments so far and estimates the investment gap. We raise further questions that crucially need to be answered in order to advance our understanding of financing climate-related efforts at national level.
Klimafinanzierung in Deutschland – Investitionen in die Transformation Incollection
Stapelfeldt, Matthias; Granzow, Martin; Kopp, Matthiaas (Ed.): Greening Finance – Herausforderungen und Lösungsansätze für eine nachhaltige Zukunft, Logos Verlag, Berlin, 2018.
Tracking German and French Climate Finance with a focus on the building sector
In 2012, Climate Policy Initiative published the first comprehensive study of the German climate finance. The report tracks the financing flows into energy transition starting from their sources, through intermediaries, to their uses. A year later, the French Agency for the Environment and Energy Management (ADEME) started to annually publish a climate finance landscape for France.
IKEM is currently working on producing an independent overview and analysis of both reports with regard to their methodologies, challenges and findings throughout the years for the landscape of climate finance in Germany and France.
Tracking German and French Climate Finance with a focus on the building sector Technical Report Forthcoming
Bericht für das Deutsch-Französisches Büro für die Energiewende., Forthcoming.
Tracking investment into the decarbonization of the German building sector
The forthcoming study aims to track investments in the building sector decarbonisation in Germany. We seek to answer the questions: how much capital is invested in climate related measures in the German building sector; what are the trends of climate finance in the sector in 2010-2016; and do they bring us to the sector-related climate goals. We will discuss where finance is concentrated and where the deficiencies are, identify examples of types of financing and support that can close the investment gap, and explore which actors could best help leverage more investment volume.
Pathways to decarbonizing the built environment:
The built environment is lagging on achieving the sector’s CO₂ emissions reduction targets. The phasing-in of energy efficiency standards and technological progress have made it possible to reduce energy consumption and CO₂ emissions during the use phase of building’s lifecycle; however, measures to reduce CO₂ emissions and preserve resources during the production and demolition phases of building’s lifecycle are still absent from sector’s political and private agenda.
The main goal of the report is to explore the circular economy approach as an alternative to support the decarbonization of the construction sector throughout the entire lifecycle of buildings. To this end, the report analyses concepts, methods, and business models in different sources published in the field of circular economy in the built environment research; namely: scientific, institutional, and grey literature. This report discusses emerging concepts and business models from the circular economy and explores its potential implementation in the construction industry. Such implementation could enable a transition in traditional building practice to a circular construction.
Pathways to Decarbonize the Built Environment – Towards a Circular Building Industry in Berlin Technical Report
IKEM: Diskussionspapier, Kopernikus ENavi, AP 4 Task 7, 2018.
Implementing the circular economy approach in the construction industry: Analysis of Berlin key players’ opinions regarding the implementation of circular concepts and business models. Forthcoming
Enabling a paradigm shift in the construction industry towards circularity requires an active interaction between scientific research and professional practice. Considering that the construction industry is rather conservative and resistant to introducing changes in the construction practice, the engagement of key stakeholders is the most relevant driver for implementing concepts and business models emerging from the circular economy in the industry.
An online-survey was elaborated to capture expert`s and decision makers’ opinions in their roles as key-players within the construction industry regarding the implementation of circular economy’s concepts and business models. The paper discusses the implications, barriers, and relevant drivers for a potential transition towards the circularity in the industry.
Making Resources in the Construction Industry go Round and Round: Implementing the Circular Economy in Berlin Technical Report
IKEM: Bericht im Rahmen des Projekts Kopernikus ENavi, 2019.
Unveiling the contribution of building’s embodied energy to global CO₂ emissions: the case of residential buildings in Berlin. Forthcoming
Building’s total energy consumption consists of the operational energy and the embodied energy. Since 1973 most countries have implemented building energy efficiency measures in their building codes, resulting in significant energy savings during the building’s operational energy. The latter has enabled a decrease in buildings’ operational energy consumption, although the embodied energy remains yet neglected. Moreover, recent studies estimate that during construction and operation, buildings account for approximately 40% of primary energy use and 50% of extracted materials within the EU, indicating a significant potential for reducing annual CO₂ emissions and improving energy and resource efficiency.
The Energy Performance of Buildings Directive 2010/31/EU requires efficiency improvements to be implemented in all new EU buildings, demanding that, from 2020 onwards, all new buildings constructed should be “nearly energy zero”. In order to achieve this ambitious goal, a more comprehensive approach to calculating building’s energy performance is needed. Based on the calculations of a case study from Berlin’s housing sector, the paper will contribute building’s embodied energy research from a German perspective.
Unveiling the contribution of building’s embodied energy to global CO₂ emissions: The case of residential buildings in Berlin Technical Report
IKEM: Bericht im Rahmen des Projekts Kopernikus ENavi, 2019.
Project Partners in WP4 Task 7
Past Events
Berlin | 12 June 2018
Germany and France set ambitious energy and climate targets. To discuss the challenge of realizing these ambitions, the Deutsch-französische Büro für die Energiewende (DFBEW) organized a conference “Die Finanzierung der Energiewende in Deutschland und Frankreich“ that took place on Tuesday , 12 June 2018 in Auswärtiges Amt der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. The conference gathered ca 200 decision-makers and investors who discussed investment need, trends and challenges of decarbonizing electrical, heat, and mobility services. Among them, Dr. Aleksandra Novikova presented IKEM’s work: she presented the German and French landscapes of climate finance and discussed similarities and differences of how these countries finance their energy transition.