The energy transition is accompanied by profound social change. Its success will depend to a considerable extent on whether socio-spatial challenges can be overcome. The project “Energiewende im sozialen Raum” (ESRa) is researching how this can be achieved.
A project for society as a whole, such as the energy transition, can only work if the transformation process is implemented as fairly and socially acceptable as possible. In every transformation process, redistribution effects arise in the form of costs and benefits and in the form of opportunities and challenges. These redistribution effects affect individual participants in different ways and seems to have rather positive effects for some and rather negative effects for others.
The ESRa research project analyses the various effects of the energy transformation and their impact on different regions and parts of the population. In particular, the following questions are being researched:
- Why is there an increasing split between urban and rural areas in the energy transition debate?
- How are the different advantages and disadvantages of the transformation distributed between the two social areas?
- Are rural areas losers of the transformation or does the energy transition also bring opportunities for their regional development?
- What solutions are there for overcoming the socio-spatial challenges of the energy transition?
These questions are explored on the basis of two comparable case studies. One of them in the city of Berlin, as an example of a booming urban centre, and the second in the district of Spree-Neiße, as an example of a more rural area that is under high transformation pressure.
The project is divided into three phases: the empirical survey of the current situation in the regions (phase 1), the analysis of the underlying socio-economic factors and interrelationships (phase 2) and finally the identification of desired and possible future paths as well as the necessary measures for their realisation (phase 3).
In addition to economic concepts, the IKEM develops regulatory proposals that are suitable for advancing the energy transition in both regions. Potential financing options will be identified and successful case studies (such as green bonds, public-private partnerships, etc.) will be examined for their transferability.
Energy transition in the social space (ESRa)
Implementing Organisations: GCF – Global Climate Forum e.V. (Coordination) Leibniz-Institut für Raumbezogene Sozialforschung; Fraunhofer-Institut für Energiewirtschaft und Energiesystemtechnik; Germanwatch e.V.; Institut für Klimaschutz, Energie und Mobilität. Recht, Ökonomie und Politik e.V.
Project duration: 08/2020 – 01/2022
Funding provided by: Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi)
IKEM – Institut für Klimaschutz,
Energie und Mobilität e.V.
Magazinstraße 15-16
10179 Berlin
Deutschland
Tel. +49 (0)30 / 4081870-10
Fax +49 (0)30 / 4081870-29
info@ikem.de