Currently, most of the municipalities in the Czechia and Slovakia either do not align clearly or are not supported in an optimal way in the implementation of purposeful Climate and Energy Management (CEM). Despite strong coordinating efforts of the EU, policymakers at national level, and the Covenant of Mayors Initiative, municipalities lack knowledge, capacity, political engagement, as well as overall support helping them with the design and implementation of effective CEM. Less than 8% of cities in Czechia and less than 3.5% of cities in Slovakia employ energy managers. In other words – these municipalities partially have own energy action plans or strategies, and they have certain form of energy management, but these activities are designed and implemented without a systematic approach. Therefore, they often lead to impractical solutions lacking a concept, control, and effects such as actual CO2 reductions, energy savings, and other environmental benefits.
To improve the situation, a cardinal change of political engagement and human capacities in municipalities is required. One option is to show municipalities the usefulness and benefits of having climate and energy managers and induce them to hire and train such. The latter issue is critical because even if the demand for energy managers would exist, there is a lack of adept climate and energy managers who could be hired by municipalities. This job is unique and no relevant training including Czechia’s and Slovakia’s specifics exists as of today.
Showing how municipal climate and energy management can be implemented and what benefits it brings (energy savings, CO2 savings, and e.g.), the project will support the mobilization of climate finance in the municipal sector of Slovakia and Czechia. The project therefore will contribute to meeting energy efficiency targets by these Member States’ public sector as set by the European for Buildings Performance Directive (EPBD) and their National Energy and Climate Plans.
These results can serve as a best practice for other municipalities in CEE member states to replicate. Therefore, this project will contribute to an enhanced understanding of necessity of climate and energy management implementation in municipalities beyond the current project.
The project will have 3 core outputs:
Output I. Delivering Climate and Energy Capacity Training Program for energy managers of Czechia and Slovakia.
Output II. Establishment of Climate and Energy Management Network, which runs personal exchanges, study trips and peer reviews of energy management in municipalities of Czechia and Slovakia.
Output III. Show cases of implementation of Climate and Energy management in 6 municipalities of Slovakia and Czechia.
|IKEM||PORSENNA o.p.s.||ZZMO CITENERGO||Sdružení energetických manažerů měst a obcí (SEMMO)|
|Aleksandra Novikova||Vítězslav Malý||Natalia Sovkopljas||Jaroslav Klusák|
Magazinstr. 15-16
10179 Berlin
Michelská 18/12a
140 00 Prague
Czech Republic
Biela 6
811 01 Bratislava
Slovakia
Tyršovo nám. 68
412 01 Litoměřice
Czech Republic
aleksandra.novikova@ikem.de
T +49 (0) 30 408 18 7028
maly@porsenna.cz
T + 420 244 013 186
sekretariat@citenergo.sk
T. + 421 905 540 002
jaroslav.klusak@litomerice.cz
T. +420 773 165 574
Project news
EnPowerClimate
Countries: Germany, Czechia, Slovakia
Implementing Organization: PORSENNA o.p.s.
Implementing Partner(s): Institute for Climate Protection, Energy and Mobility (IKEM), ZZMO CITENERGO, Sdružení energetických manažerů měst a obcí (SEMMO)
Project duration: 07/2020 – 06/2022
The European Climate Initiative (EUKI): This project is part of the European Climate Initiative (EUKI). EUKI is a project financing instrument by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU). The EUKI competition for project ideas is implemented by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH. It is the overarching goal of the EUKI to foster climate cooperation within the European Union (EU) in order to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
IKEM – Institut für Klimaschutz,
Energie und Mobilität e.V.
Magazinstraße 15-16
10179 Berlin
Deutschland
Tel. +49 (0)30 / 4081870-10
Fax +49 (0)30 / 4081870-29
info@ikem.de