Project information
LaWoMa has a strong practical connection to the Gewobag’s Mariendorf residential park and its local energy supply concept. The aim of the project is the elaboration of: (1) cost reduction potentials for the grid integration of charging infrastructure through controlled charging; (2) measures to reduce the blocking time of charging stations; and (3) energy and climate effects of the integration of charging infrastructure into a local energy concept. The transferability of this approach to planned and existing residential areas, which are energetically retrofitted and transferred to local supply structures, will be demonstrated on the basis of the project results. The main project goal of Gewobag is the modernisation of the Mariendorf residential park and the model development towards a “Smart City”, which combines energy-efficient and climate-friendly living with a charging infrastructure for electric vehicles close to the residents.
The project partners are: Gewobag AG, GASAG AG, Allego, and IKEM.
IKEM’s role in the project
Within the LaWoMa project, IKEM is responsible for the implementation of various project tasks.
First, IKEM analyses the different players in the neighbourhood’s own energy supply and charging infrastructure as well as their business relationships with each other. Furthermore, the legal responsibilities of all stakeholders involved – especially the “system responsibility” – for the function and operation of the charging infrastructure will be legally examined.
Moreover, IKEM is investigating the use of the charging facilities installed at the Mariendorf residential park based on the back-end data of the participating charging infrastructure operator Allego. Furthermore, tenants of Gewobag are interviewed to find out how they evaluate an extension of the charging time caused by the load management or a reduced range of the e-vehicle in individual cases.
In addition, IKEM calculates the grid and energy economic effects of the energy concept in the Mariendorf residential park in connection with the integration of charging infrastructure as well as their contribution to a climate-friendly energy supply of residential buildings and e-vehicles. Furthermore, IKEM uses business analyses to determine the extent to which the economic efficiency of the construction and operation of charging infrastructure can be increased by load management.