Background
WindNODE promotes efficient integration of renewable energy generation, electricity grids and energy users, based on digital interconnection. WindNODE is the showcase in which the German capital region and Northeastern Germany present the technological progress achieved through the energy transition to national and international audiences. Innovative and customer-driven products will be tested in a large-scale real-life laboratory.
IKEM is part of the WindNODE consortium funded by the SINTEG program of the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy (BMWi).
Visibility & Outreach
WindNODE is generating practice-oriented results for the transition to a sustainable, integrated energy system at a high pace. As the project enters its final years, targeted outreach and visibility measures will multiply the impact of the project, and highlight the transfer potential of WindNODE’s findings to any region interested in an energy transition of its own, in Germany and beyond.
An outreach and visibility portfolio will be implemented to ensure high visibility, transferability and implementation of WindNODE results. The portfolio targets the international community, national decision-makers, energy sector experts and engages with the public at large through a variety of activities, each tailored to the needs of these specific targets groups. Expert conferences, summarizing publications, a presentation library of work package results, informative promo videos and a targeted stakeholder consultation through a citizen focus group, all these measures are an integral part of a holistic outreach strategy that will ensure high visibility and transferability.
Blueprints for Energy Transition Processes
As a prototype of a large-scale real-life laboratory WindNODE also generates insights into transferable methods and methodological innovations for a fast transition to a sustainable, integrated energy system. The aim of the IKEM working module is to compile these methodological findings and bring them together in a handbook “Blueprints for Energy Transition Processes”.
IKEM will identify success factors in other relevant transition projects in Germany, Europe and worldwide and link them with approaches of WindNODE. The handbook will cover the current discussion about success factors of transitions in coal regions, especially in Lusatia as WindNODE region. However, the blueprints compiled in the handbook will extend beyond Lusatia and allow a broad national and international application in transition processes.