POSTPONED: No future for rural Europe? – MAMBA Final Conference
Due to the latest disruptions caused by the spread of COVID-19, MAMBA project has decided to postpone the Final Conference until September 2020 and change its format into a three-part digital event. We hope you will join us for the “No future for rural Europe? Breaking the vicious circle with successful mobility and accessibility ideas” conference, which we will hold as a series of webinars on the 3, 10 and 17 September 2020, 10:00 – 11.30 CET.
Seminar #1: Setting the scene, exploring the challenge
3 September, 10:00 CET (click to register)
The first in an instalment of three seminars will focus on setting the scene and exploring what the challenges surrounding rural mobility are. The seminar will feature presentations from relevant figures within the area of mobility, as well as the possibility to join smaller sessions, with the option of exchanging knowledge about a range of topics, including gender questions, transport poverty and more. Following the keynote of Laurie Pickup, our MAMBA partners will walk through the social, economic, legal and cultural conditions that influence the success and failure of rural mobility innovations.
Seminar #2: Breaking the vicious circle with successful mobility and accessibility solutions – Stories from MAMBA and beyond
10 September, 10:00 CET (click to register)
The second seminar will bring to your attention several success stories from the area of rural mobility, presented by MAMBA and similar projects and initiatives. Four inspiring stories from different parts of Europe will showcase how they succeeded in making their region a better place. The seminar will also feature the launch of MAMBA’s brand new publication, “Everybody’s Guide to Collaborative Mobility and Accessibility Solutions in Rural Areas”. If you are a committed citizen or represent an NGO or a local public authority and want to tackle the mobility challenges in your region, then this manual is made for you. Join our seminar for the full story.
Seminar #3: How can mobility policies open the road for better mobility and accessibility in rural areas?
17 September, 10:00 CET (click to register)
During the previous seminars, we developed an understanding of the situation and learned how everyone could make a change on a very practical level. But mobility is not just a local responsibility of practitioners on the ground. Let’s switch one level up: how can decision-makers contribute to better conditions for innovative approaches to mobility and accessibility in rural Europe? We will gather experts from politics, administration and academia to discuss how decision-makers can contribute to tackling these challenges.
About the project
“Almost two years ago the bus stopped driving in our area, and since then there are difficulties to get to the county centre.” This quote belongs to a local of the Mazsalaca County, in Latvia, but it might as well belong to any other resident living in one of Europe’s remote, rural areas.
With decreasing and ageing populations in many rural areas in the Baltic Sea Region, it is becoming increasingly challenging to keep up public transport and other services that depend on mobility, such as home care or home deliveries. This reduced accessibility of services impacts the life quality of people living outside urban centres. For the past three years, MAMBA project has been trying to meet this challenge by introducing Rural Mobility Solutions in areas that have been affected by the lack of public transport opportunities.
During its final webinar series, MAMBA will present the results of the past three years, while also initiating a discussion about the different aspects of rural mobility across Europe, and discussing innovative solutions and successful mobility ideas.
Elias Eickelmann
Magazinstraße 15-16 | 10179 Berlin
elias.eickelmann@ikem.de
+49 (0) 30 408 1870-11