The close connection between EIKE and leading scientists decisively contributes to the fact that the educational content of EIKE is always based on the latest scientific knowledge. The expert advisory board of EIKE Jena, therefore, is put together by leading representatives of relevant specialist areas from all over the world. Their goal is to drive the ideas of EIKE and to ensure the quality of the edited content by using their network and their profound experience.
Advisory Board members
Prof. Dr. Helmut Alt, Dipl.-Ing., FH Aachen, ret.
+ Prof. Dr. Dieter Ameling, Dipl.-Ing., Technical University of Clausthal in memoriam, died on August 2020)
+ Dr. Horst Borchert, physicist, University of Mainz, ret., in memoriam, died on 11/11/15
+ Prof. Dr. Robert M. Carter, Paleontologist, James Cook University, Queensland, University of Adelaide, South Australia, Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand, ret., in memoriam, died on 17.01.16
Richard S. Courtney, member of the the editorial board of Energy & Environment,
Prof. Dr. Friedrich-Karl Ewert, geologist, University of Paderborn, ret.
Edgar Ludwig Gärtner, Diplom-Ökologe, Hydrobiologe, Buchautor, Bad Nauheim
Dr. Hans Jelbring, climatologist, University of Stockholm
+ Prof. Dr. Hans-Burkhard Horlacher, Dipl.-Ing., University of Dresden, ret., (in memoriam – deceased in spring 2016)
Dr. Hans H.J. Labohm, economist and journalist (1987-1992 OECD representative of the Netherlands) IPCC Expert Reviewer AR4 (2007)
+ Prof. Dr. Klaus Landfried, political scientist, University of Kaiserslautern, former President of the University Rectors‘ Conference (in memoriam – deceased on 11.10.14)
+ Prof. Dr. Marcel Leroux, climatologist, University of Lyon (in memoriam – deceased)
Prof. Dr. Horst-Joachim Lüdecke, physicist, Saarland University of Technology and Economics, ret.
Prof. Dr. Horst Malberg, Meteorologist, Freie Universität Berlin, former Director of the Meteorological Institute of the Free University, ret.
Dr. Henri A. Masson, Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Antwerp and visting Professor at the Maastricht School of Management.
Prof. Dr.-Ing. Eberhard Menzel, former Rector of the University of Applied Sciences Dortmund and founder of the University of Applied Sciences of the Western Ruhr
+ Prof. Dr. Niels Mörner, Oceanographer, University of Stockholm, former President of the Neotectonics Commission of INQUA (International Union for Quaternary Research), ret.in memoriam, died on 10/16/20
Prof. Dr. Garth W. Paltridge DSc FAA, Emeritus Professor at the University of Tasmania, and visting Fellow at the Australian National University.
Neueste Kommentare