Data Protection
We would like to inform you about our privacy policy. You will find information here about the collection and use of personal data when using our website. In doing so, we consider the data protection law applicable to Germany. You can access this statement at any time on our website. We explicitly point out that data transmission on the Internet (for example, by e-mail communication) has security gaps and can not be completely protected against access by third parties.
The use of the contact data of our imprint for commercial advertising is not allowed, unless we had previously given our written consent or there is already a business relationship. The provider and all persons mentioned on this website hereby contradict to any commercial use or transmission of their data.
Personal information
You can visit our website without providing personal data. If personal data (such as name, address or e-mail address) gets collected on our website, it is done on a voluntary basis. These data will not be passed on to third parties without your approval. If a contractual relationship is justified between you and us, modified or modified, or if you ask us to make an inquiry, we collect and use personal data from you as far as this is necessary (stock data). We collect, process and use personal data as far as necessary to enable you to use the website (usage data). All personal data will only be saved as long as necessary for the purpose (processing your request or handling a contract). This considers tax and commercial law retention periods. At the order of the responsible authorities, we may provide information on these data (stock data) in individual cases, as far as this is necessary for the purposes of law enforcement, security, the fulfillment of the statutory tasks of the constitutional protection authorities or the military shielding service or the enforcement of intellectual property rights.
Right of access
You have the right at any time to inquire about the data collected on your behalf free of charge and without delay. You have the right at all times to revoke your consent to the use of your specified personal data with effect for the future. For further information, please contact the provider under the contact data in the imprint.
Neueste Kommentare