Site Notice
Information pursuant to Sect. 5 German Telemedia Act (TMG)
EIKE e.V
Wiesenstr. 110
07743 Jena
Represented by:
Dr. Holger Thuß, Präsident
Dipl. Ing. Michael Limburg, Vizepäsident (Medien & Politik)
Prof. Dr. Horst-Joachim Lüdecke (Dipl.-Physiker), Pressesprecher
Dipl. Meteorologe Klaus-Eckart Puls, Pressesprecher
Contact
Phone: +49 (0)3641-3279 8581
E-mail: info(at)eike-klima-energie.eu
Person responsible for editorial
Dipl. Ing. Michael Limburg, Vizepäsident (Medien & Politik)
EU dispute resolution
The European Commission provides a platform for online dispute resolution (ODR): https://ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr/.
Our e-mail address can be found above in the site notice.
Dispute resolution proceedings in front of a consumer arbitration board
We are not willing or obliged to participate in dispute resolution proceedings in front of a consumer arbitration board.
Donation Account:
Account owner: EIKE e.V.
Bank: Volksbank Gera Jena Rudolstadt
IBAN: DE34 8309 4454 0042 4292 01
BIC/SWIFT: GENODEF1RUJ
Non-profit organization
The responsible tax authority office has certified our institute that it serves solely and directly charitable purposes, similar to American 501(c) organizations.
Disclaimer
In the individual case of marked articles and pictures, all rights are reserved. All texts, pictures, graphics, sound, video and animation files, as well as their arrangements, are subject to copyright and other laws for the protection of intellectual property. They may neither be copied, modified or used on other websites for commercial purposes or for distribution purposes. Some pages contain information that is subject to the copyright of those who have provided it. Articles, publications, or contributions of a different kind, which are specifically marked, express exclusively the opinion of the author or authors. The editorial team of EIKE is not responsible for this.
Guarantee / Liability
The information on this website is provided without any warranty or guarantee of any kind, may they be expressed or implied. Even if it is assumed that the information given here is correct, they may still contain mistakes or inaccuracies. Therefore, no liability is assumed for incorrect, imprecise or incomplete information on these web pages or for possible consequences resulting from the use of the information.
© by EIKE | imprint
Neueste Kommentare